## Problem statement
Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) requires to build the shortest path which goes through all the cities without repetition and returns to the starting point. The datasets provided are the following (in the order of increasing number of cities): Vanuatu, Italy, Russia, US, China.

## Approaches implemented
1. **Greedy TSP**

The algorithm starts from the first city in the list of cities and proceeds to build the route with the closest (minimal geodesic distance) city. The main drawback of this approach: the last city to visit could be very far from the first city in the route, so returning to the starting point adds a huge distance to the complete path.

2. **Greedier TSP**

Greedier TSP algorithm exploits the idea of the greedy approach with a randomly selected starting city. This random initialization allows for a better solution than in Greedy TSP, e.g. if the starting point is the city that was the last in the Greedy TSP, the algorithm would connect it with the closest city instead of route to the first city in the Greedy TSP. By exploring the limited number of iterations with random initialization, it is attempted to alleviate the issue of closing the path with non-optimal connection of the last and the first cities. However, this exploration is computationally expensive in case of a big number of cities and doesn't guarantee the best solution.

3. **Tabu Search**

Tabu Search is an approach of local search applicable to the discrete search space. The search starts from a sub-optimal fast solution received from Greedy TSP. The tabu list stores recently visited solutions to prevent the algorithm from revisiting them. The neighbours are generated with either inversion mutation or scramble mutation (with the higher probability of the inversion mutation since it minimizes changes in the edges, thus preserving most of intercity pairs of connections). The neighbor is accepted as the new current solution if its fitness is better than the best known fitness or if it is not in the tabu list, allowing for a limited number of worsening moves to be accepted to escape potential local optima. If the number of consecutive worsening moves exceeds the set threshold, the algorithm reverts to the best solution found so far.

4. **Evolved Salesman**

Evolved Salesman introduces the principles of evolution strategies. An initial population is generated by mutating (inverse or scramble mutations) the initial suboptimal solution (taken as a result of the previous approach). The steady-state population management model is implemented. At each generation, for each offspring, two parents are selected through rank-based selection, inver-over crossover is applied to them, and the resulting solution is mutated with a certain mutation probability. The survival selection is done by comparing the generated offspring with the worst solution in the population based on their fitness (geodesic distance of the path encoded in a solution). 



## Results
| Algorithm | Vanuatu | Italy | Russia | US | China |
|-----------|---------|-------|--------|----|-------|
| Greedy TSP | 1475.528 | 4436.032 | 42334.165 | 48050.026 | 63962.918 |
| Greedier TSP | 1475.528 | 4576.195 | 40051.587 | 46997.434 | 62439.532 |
| Tabu Search | 1345.545 | 4429.095 | 42334.165 | 48050.026 | 63962.918 |
| Evolved Salesman | 1345.545 | 4429.095 | 40802.405 | 47284.889 | 63433.308 |

It's noticeable that Greedier TSP, while in cases as with Russia and China surprisingly provides the best result, is generally an unstable approach requiring a lot of computational time when dealing with big datasets. Tabu Search and ES offer a faster and more efficient way to improve the results obtained with the simple greedy method.
